Now let's look at Philippians chapter 3, take a look at 13 and then a few other verses.
But in part verse 13 says, forgetting, forgetting the things behind and stretching forward to the things ahead.
But we accidentally forget some things that we wish we could remember.
Maybe a person's name and address a scripture.
We might even forget today's date.
But to purposefully try to forget something is another matter.
It seems the more that we try to forget it, the more we remember it.
Well, in the example in the scriptures might have noticed the way the scripture cited,
it starts out with, in brackets, I am forgetting.
So that's the Apostle Paul.
So what did Paul intend when he said, forgetting the things behind?
Well first, let's look back at verses 5 and 6.
His prestigious pedigree.
He was an Israelite of the honored tribe of Benjamin.
He was a Hebrew through and through.
He was an educated esteemed Pharisee.
And he scrupulously lived by the law.
He said blamelessly.
Well, in verse 7, he then says, yet the things that were gains to me,
I've considered loss on the count of the Christ.
But did he totally erase all that from his mind?
Did he literally forget that, the things behind?
Well, it doesn't seem to be the case.
In verses 5 and 6, he just rattled them off from memory.
So what does Paul mean when he says forgetting?
Well, the study note on this verse,
I said about the word translated forgetting
that it can mean unconcerned about it.
Similarly, you possible Paul, he remembered those things.
But you see, he was unconcerned about them now.
He didn't care about them.
He was like a runner focused on the things I had.
The finish line is heavenly hope.
Well, similarly, some have given up a lucrative career
to enter the full-time ministry.
Do they remember that previous lifestyle?
Yes, but they don't dwell on it anymore.
They're unconcerned about it.
They're stretching forward for their spiritual goals ahead.
Now, second, what else did Paul not really forget,
but pushed to the back of his mind?
Now, unconcerned about it because he could not change it.
A first Timothy 1, 12, through 16,
it was his former conduct toward Christians.
He was ruthless.
He raided homes.
He dragged brothers and sisters to the Sanhedrin for trial.
Well, that was barbaric.
In fact, he describes himself in verse 13,
1 Timothy 1, 13, he says,
I was a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent man.
And one scholar said that Greek word translated insolent
indicates a kind of arrogant sadism.
He said, it describes the man who is out to inflict pain
for the sheer joy of inflicting it.
Saul was a zealous ruffian.
What did he forget that former conduct
were Jesus disciples?
No, he just told us about his former personality.
It likely pained him greatly,
but he could not change what happened.
So he changed himself and moved on,
stretching forward to the things that had confident
that based on Jesus' ransom, Jehovah forgave him
and loved him for who he was now
and what he was able to do for the truth.
I like Paul some of our brothers and sisters
did despicable things before coming into the truth.
They can't change that, but they did change themselves
and praying for forgiveness in Jesus' name.
They now are Jehovah's precious sheep,
finally able to put it behind them
and like a runner, stretch forward to their future reward.
Now thirdly, how else did Paul need
to implement this principle
for getting the things behind and moving forward?
Was he perfect after his conversion to Christianity?
Nothing more than he needed to try to forget
the things behind.
Well, that doesn't seem to be so.
Please, Romans chapter seven.
And I might add, this is just a little over 20 years
after Paul saw the light and became a Christian.
So 20 years as a Christian, did he try to forget some things
during those intervening years as a Christian?
Well, think about it, Paul was a prominent apostle.
It's true, Jehovah loved him,
but he was imperfect and at times,
he evidently succumbed to imperfection.
Romans seven, 21 to 23.
I find that on this law, in my case,
when I wish to do what is right,
what is bad is present with me.
I really delight in the law of God
according to the man who I am within.
But I see in my body another law
worrying against the law of my mind
and leading me captive to sin's law that is in my body.
We can be sure that Paul did not get involved
in a serious, gross wrongdoing.
Nevertheless, he admits he still had a degree of sin
within him imperfection.
In fact, if you look back up there,
Romans seven, verse 14 and 15,
for we know that the law is spiritual.
Paul says, but I am fleshly sold under sin.
For I do not understand what I am doing.
For I do not practice what I wish,
but I do what I hate.
Well, don't you too hate it
when imperfection sneaks up and bites you.
You done or said something, you do not wish.
And maybe you've even hurt a brother
now in the process.
But we call the account in Acts chapter 15
where Paul and Barnum has had a serious disagreement over Mark.
And 39 of that chapter says,
at this, there was a sharp, sharp burst of anger
so that they, as Christians, separated from each other
at least for a time.
Do you think Paul was happy about that incident?
Likely not.
In fact, when he detected imperfection within him
at Romans 724, he said, miserable,
miserable man that I am.
Paul felt miserable.
And no doubt afterward, he was sorry
that the conversation escalated to that point,
that calm thinking did not prevail
on either his or Barnabas part, but it happened.
And words cannot be retracted.
Well, the Bible doesn't say,
but afterwards Paul may have agonized over that incident
for weeks.
Even after we apologize for something,
that we've said that we did not wish,
we still might feel guilty.
And it can rehearse it over and over in our minds.
In English, there's a medical abbreviation,
DNR, it means do not resuscitate.
A terminal patient's hopeless condition cannot be changed.
So if he stops breathing,
there will be no heroic efforts to revive him.
Well, even after a person apologizes for what he did not wish,
it can still invade his thinking on a daily basis.
So what can you do?
Philippians 313, forgetting the things behind.
Now, we don't actually forget it,
but based on the ransom sacrifice of Jesus,
which is certainly big enough to cover our mistake,
we choose DNR.
We don't breathe life back into that event.
We don't try to revive it.
At some point, we just have to let it go.
DNR do not rehearse in your mind,
but happened over and over.
Instead, do your level best to serve Jehovah whole soul.
And like Paul, learn from the incident,
but don't let it paralyze your spiritual progress.
Like a runner, stretch forward to the things ahead.